# Toll-Booth-Management-System 

# Aim of the Project : 
To efficiently manage the collection of the toll in electronic form as well as manual toll collection. Keeping a record of the vehicles and the medium they choose for the payment of the toll.

# Abstract : 
This project emphasis the application of the current language in the tolling system. Project aims to betterment of the tolling system in the collection as well as retrieval of the data of the vehicles passing by the toll booth. It has got a lot of function enough to handle as well as easy in implementation. It counts on the payment method used by the toll payer (manual mode, UPI payment, FastTag deduction). If its FastTag payer then depending on the vehicle type registered it will deduct the amount form the payer FastTag wallet. There will be a list of fastTag users file in which registered fastTag users will be given with respective fastTag Id( ex.FTG0001133). If it’s the UPI payment then they will have to pay the enlisted amount depending on their vehicle type. Same goes for the manual payment. Also, this application bifurcates the vehicles and later proceeds for the payments. Before proceeding for the final payment, it also looks for the weight of the vehicle if it’s in normal range nothing is added to the bill else it carries some goods the toll amount is doubled. It also stores Information about the vehicles and the type of vehicle.And later displays it by summarizing the numbers depending on the type. Features of the project is that it is fully user-based application. It will be convenient for the toll collectors to collect and manage the details easily. Its all-in-one application for toll booth management. It highlights the invoice for the user, and gives summary how much amount and for what is has been deducted. It is more user-friendly and as per the user’s convenience. The project also has got admin login window so the security of the application has been increased. None other than the specified users can login to this application. It also follows the government norms to exempt two wheelers and it don’t ask for toll for agricultural tractors. It allows smooth management of the toll collection and storage. It can excel on a large scale. It saves both time and fuel. This system improves the speed and efficiency of traffic flow and save drivers’ time. This is also cost effective and maintenance cost is low.
